# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}
# ${build-info}


=head1 NAME

cron -- NCM component to control cron entries for Linux and Solaris.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<cron> component manages files in the /etc/cron.d directory on Linux
and the /var/spool/cron/crontabs directory on Solaris.

=head2 Linux

=over

Files managed by ncm-cron will have the ncm-cron.cron suffix.  Other files in
the directory are not affected by this component. The name of each file will be
taken from the nlist name.

=back

=head2 Solaris

=over

Solaris uses an older version of cron that does not make use of a cron.d
directory for crontabs. Ncm-cron B<shares> the crontab with each user. To make
this work ncm-cron uses the concept of separate file B<sections> within the
crontab.  Each B<section> is identified by the use of the tags NCM-CRON BEGIN:
and NCM-CRON END:. Entries either side of these section identifiers are not
modified.

Solaris B<does> have a /etc/cron.d directory, however it uses this directory
for control files such as cron.allow and cron.deny.

=back

=head1 MAIN RESOURCES

=head2 /software/components/cron/entries

A list containing cron structures (described above).

=head1 ENTRY RESOURCES

Each cron entry in the /software/components/cron/entries list may
contain the properties and resources described below. One of "frequency"
or "timing" must be specified.

=over 4

=item B<command> : string (required)

Command line to execute, including all its options.

Default : None

=item B<comment> : string (optional)

An optional comment to add at the beginning of the cron file.

Default : None

=item B<env> : nlist (optional)

An optional nlist containing environment variable that must be
defined before executing the command. Key is
the variable name, value is variable value.

Default : None

=item B<frequency> : string (optional)

Execution frequency for the command, using standard cron syntax.
Minutes field can be 'AUTO' : in this case,
a random value between 0 and 59 inclusive is generated.
This can be used to avoid too many machines executing the same
cron at the same time. See also the "timing" element.

Default : None

=item B<group> : string (optional)

Group to use to run the command. Defaults to user's primary group.

Default : user's primary group

=item B<log> : nlist (optional)

A nlist allowing to define specific attributes for cron log file.
Supported attributes are :

=over 4

=item name

name of the log file. If the name is not an absolute file name, file is created in /var/log.
Default name is the cron file name with .log extension in /var/log.

=item owner

owner/group of the log file, using owner:group format. group can be ommitted.

=item mode

permissions of log file specified as a string interpreted as an octal number.

=item disabled

A boolean value disabling the redirection of script output/error to a log file

=back

=item B<name> : string (required)

Name of the cron entry file to create.

Default : None

=item B<timing> : nlist (optional)

If the 'timing' nlist is used to specify the time, it can contain any of the
keys: 'minute', 'hour', 'day', 'month' and 'weekday'. An unspecified key will
have a value of '*'. A further key of 'smear' can be used to specify (in
seconds) a maximum interval for smearing the start time, which can be as much
as a day. When a smeared job is created, a random increment between zero and
the smear time is applied to the start time of the job.  If the start time
results in the job running on the following day, then all other fields (day,
weekday, etc) will be suitably modified. When smearing is specified, then the
start minute (and possibly hour, if smear is more than one hour) must be
specified as a simple absolute (e.g. '2') and cannot be variations such as
lists or ranges.  Time specifications such as ranges, lists and steps are
supported except for named values (e.g.  "1" must be used instead of "mon").

=item B<user> : string (optional)

User to use to run the command.

Default : root

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

  "/software/components/cron/entries" = list(
    nlist(
      "name","ls",
      "user","root",
      "group","root",
      "frequency", "*/2 * * * *",
      "command", "/bin/ls"),
    nlist(
      "name","hostname",
      "comment", "some interesting text",
      "frequency", "*/2 * * * *",
      "command", "/bin/hostname"),
      "env", nlist("MAILTO", "admin@example.org"),
    nlist(
      "name", "date",
      "comment", "runs the date sometime within a 3 hour period",
      "timing", nlist(
          "minute", "0",
          "hour", "1",
          "smear", "180"),
      "command", "/bin/date")
    );

On Linux this will create three files in /etc/cron.d:
  ls.ncm-cron.cron
  hostname.ncm-cron.cron
  date.ncm-cron.cron

On Solaris three extra entries will be added to the root crontab.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

None.

=head1 BUGS

=head2 Linux

=over

None known.

=back

=head2 Solaris

=over

Editing the NCM-CRON BEGIN: and/or the NCM-CRON END: tag within a crontab will
cause unpredictable behaviour. Possible behavours are duplicate entries or
entries being removed altogether.

Editing BETWEEN the tags will cause the edits to be overwritten the next time
ncm-cron runs.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Charles Loomis <charles.loomis@cern.ch>

=head1 MAINTAINERS

Guillaume Philippon <philippo@lal.in2p3.fr>

Mark Wilson <Mark.Wilson@MorganStanley.com>

=head1 VERSION

${project.version}

=head1 SEE ALSO

ncm-ncd(1)

=cut
