# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=begin comment

Be sure to put a blank line before and after every formatting command

=end comment

=head1 NAME

postgresql : NCM component to manage PostgreSQL configuration.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This component allows to manage configuration of PostgreSQL.
It's very basic infucntionality (originally devolped for dcache usage). 

=head1 RESOURCES

=item /software/components/postgresql/config/debug_print
Set the debug logging level (default = 15). The default is very verbose (but best to leave as is). 
The component can be a bit aggressive when things don't work, this will log everything. 

=item /software/components/postgresql/pg_script_name
Name of the service to start postgresql (default = postgresql). 
This should allow you to start multiple postgres instances on the same machine.

=item /software/components/postgresql/pg_dir
Name of the base diretcory of the postgres install (default = /var/lib/pgsql). 
This directory will be used for the installation (eg create the PG_VERSION in subdirectory data).

=item /software/components/postgresql/pg_port
Name of the port used by postgres (default = 5432).

=item /software/components/postgresql/postgresql_conf
Full text of the postgresql.conf file

=item /software/components/postgresql/pg_hba
Full text of the pg_hba.conf file

=item /software/components/postgresql/roles
nlist of roles to create and alter. 
Key is the name of the role (new roles added with CREATE ROLE)
Value is a string used with ALTER ROLE.

=item /software/components/postgresql/databases
A nlist of databases to create/initialise
Key is the name of the database

=item /software/components/postgresql/databases/[db_name]/user
OWNER of the database

=item /software/components/postgresql/databases/[db_name]/installfile
Optional: when a database is freshly created, this file is used to initialise the database (using pgsql -f option) 

=item /software/components/postgresql/databases/[db_name]/lang
Optional: when a database is freshly created, it set the pg language for the db (useing createlang) (this runs after installfile) 

=item /software/components/postgresql/databases/[db_name]/langfile
Optional: when a database is freshly created, this file is used to eg add procedures in certain lang (using pgsql -f option) (this runs after succesfull lang) 


=item /software/components/postgresql/databases/[db_name]/sql_user
Optional: when a database is freshly created, and the /software/components/postgresql/databases/[db_name]/installfile is defined, initialise the database with this user. 
(defaults to the owner of the db as defined in /software/components/postgresql/databases/[db_name]/user)

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

None.

=head1 BUGS

None known.

=head1 AUTHOR

Stijn.De.Weirdt@cern.ch

=head1 MAINTAINER

Stijn.De.Weirdt@cern.ch

=head1 VERSION

0.1.3

=head1 SEE ALSO

ncm-ncd(1)


=cut

