# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=head1 NAME

xen: Configure Xen domains

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<xen> component allows you to specify the configuration of hosted 
Xen virtual machines (Domain Us). It runs on a hosting VM (Domain 0)
and is primarily responsible for translating options specified in the
profile into Xen's domain configuration files (usually in /etc/xen).

ncm-xen can also set up the filesystems specified for a guest VM:
currently file-backed and LVM-backed images will be created if
they do not exist.

When ncm-xen is used in conjunction with pypxeboot 
(http://www.cs.tcd.ie/Stephen.Childs/pypxeboot) and AII, it should be
possible to perform a complete unattended installation of a VM host
and its guest VMs.

=head1 RESOURCES

=item /system/xen/

Root of configuration tree for this component.

=item /system/xen/create_filesystems

Controls whether ncm-xen will create filesystems specified in domain 
configurations if they don't exist. (Not yet implemented)

=item /system/xen/create_domains

Controls whether ncm-xen will create (i.e. start up) the specified
domains automatically.

=item /system/xen/domains[domain]/auto

Controls whether this domain should be created automatically on 
system startup. If so, ncm-xen will add a link in /etc/xen/auto

=item /system/xen/domains/[domain]/options/

=item ...

These values are used to generate the /etc/xen/[domain] files. There is a 
direct mapping for most entries between the name of the parameter and 
the entry in the Xen configuration file. For example, the setting:

"/software/components/xen/domains/0/options/name"="cagnode49";
"/software/components/xen/domains/0/options/memory"="200";

will be translated to the following entry in the file /etc/xen/cagnode49:

memory = '200'

The major exception is the specification of disks for the virtual machine.
This uses a type xen_vdisk which must include parameters
needed to set up the filesystem on the host VM's disk, and also
parameters relevant within the guest VM. An example:

"/software/components/xen/domains/0/options/disk"=list(nlist("type",'file',
                     "path",'/var/xen-grid/cagnode50/fs/disk',
                     "device",'sda',
                     "size", 10*GB,
                     "rw",'w'),

               nlist("type",'lvm',
                     "hostdevice",'xenvg',
                     "hostvol", 'cagnode50-swap',
                     "size", 6*GB,
                     "device",'hda3',"rw",'w'))

This entry sets up two devices for the cagnode49 VM: a 10 GB file
to be mounted via loopback and a 6 GB LVM volume on the volume group
xenvg.

=item /system/xen/domains/[domain]/install_options/

=item ...

Sometimes it is useful to have a different set of options for the
initial installation of the Xen domain U. For example, these might
include instructions for a network installation. Options set in this
structure will be written to a file /etc/xen/[domain-name].start

=item /system/xen/network
Configure the network needed for proper XEN functioning.
To see a working example of how to use this, please check 
the xen/configure_guests and xen/auto_network templates from QWG. 

=item /system/xen/network/removeqemunetworklibvirtautostart
Remove the autostart qemu network setup from libvirt (and then restart the service)
(default: true (in the schema))

=item /system/xen/network/bridges/
an nlist of bridges to setup. This will generated the typical multibridge setup and modify the xen config file.

=item /system/xen/network/bridges/<bridgename>/netdev
=item /system/xen/network/bridges/<bridgename>/vifnum
Use the defined netdev and vifnum in combination with the bridge. 
If these are not defined and the bridge name is of the form xenbr<integer>, vifnum=<integer> and netdev=eth<integer> will be used.

=cut
