# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


###############################################################################
# This is 'php.pod', a ncm-php's file
###############################################################################
#
#
###############################################################################
# Coding style: emulate <TAB> characters with 4 spaces, thanks!
###############################################################################
=head1 NAME

NCM::php - NCM PHP component

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item Configure()

Configuration tool for the  PHP interpreter. The file manipulated
is /etc/php.ini.


=item Unconfigure()

Not implemented.
 
=back

=back

=head1 php.ini Config Structure


The php.ini file has the following structure:


    [Section1]
    varA = valA
    varB = valB

    [Section2]
    sect2.varC = valC
    sect2.varD = valD

The php.ini configuration sturcure resides under the

    /software/components/php/conf

branch. For each section, there is a separate branch
defined 

    /software/components/php/conf/section1
    /software/components/php/conf/section2

For every section, there are 2 extra variables 

    /software/components/php/conf/section/name
    /software/components/php/conf/section/prep_name

'name' is obligatory. This will be the title of the section
enclosed in '[' and ']'. If 'prep_name' is defined, then
this will be the string prepended to the variable names,
as in the previous example

    sect2.varC = valC
    sect2.varD = valD


For available section and variable definitions
please refer to the corresponding schema definition file.


=back

=head1 RESOURCES

=over

=item /software/components/php/active : boolean

activates/deactivates the component.

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Judit Novak <Judit.Novak@cern.ch>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ncd(1)

=cut


