# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}

=head1 NAME

hostsaccess: NCM component to control C<< /etc/hosts.allow >> and C<< hosts.deny >> files.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<hostsaccess> component manages the configuration files C<< /etc/hosts.allow >>
and C<< /etc/hosts.deny >>. Few checks are done on the given configuration to
allow all of the supported wildcarding.

=head1 RESOURCES

=over

=item * C<< /software/components/hostsaccess/allow >>

A list where each entry consists of a named list with the keys: daemon
and host.  Both of the keys take strings as values and hence can
support the full wildcarding syntax.  These entries are allowed to
access the daemon.

B<NOTE:> The daemon name MUST be encoded with the pan escape()
function. This allows daemon lists to be used in the specification.

=item * C<< /software/components/hostsaccess/deny >>

A list where each entry consists of a named list with the keys: daemon
and host.  Both of the keys take strings as values and hence can
support the full wildcarding syntax.  These entries are denied access
to the daemon.

B<NOTE:> The daemon name MUST be encoded with the pan escape()
function. This allows daemon lists to be used in the specification.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

  "/software/components/hostsaccess/allow" = append(
                                                nlist(
                                                   "daemon",escape("slapd"),
                                                   "host","127.0.0.1"
                                                )
                                            );

=cut
