# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}

# Coding style: emulate <TAB> characters with 4 spaces, thanks!
################################################################################



=head1 NAME

NCM::afsclt - NCM AFS client configuration component

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item Configure()

Sets ThisCell and enables AFS authentication (via authconfig) and a
few options in /etc/sysconfig/afs. Configures /etc/sysconfig/iptables
for the AFS client callback port.

=item Unconfigure()

/etc/sysconfig/afs: reset to defaults
iptables: remove the AFS ports
authconfig: no action
CellServDB: no action

=back

=head1 RESOURCES

=over

=item /software/components/afsclt/active : boolean

activates/deactivates the component.

=item /software/components/afsclt/thiscell : string

local AFS cell for this machine

=item /software/components/afsclt/settime : boolean

make AFS client set the system time or not.

=item /software/components/afsclt/options : nlist

various command-line options for the afsd daemon

=item /software/components/afsclt/verbose : boolean

lots of debugging output in the logs.

=item /software/components/afsclt/cachesize : int

desired AFS cache size on disk, in 1K blocks. The running AFS cache
will get adjusted online, and $afs_cacheinfo will be changed if
required. Please note that an available (mounted) AFS cache partition
has precedence over this value, i.e. you cannot force a lower usage of
the cache partition. For Linux machines, a cache partition will use
CACHESIZE=AUTOMATIC, for other OSes, a hardcoded fill rate of 85% is
used.

=item /software/components/afsclt/cellservdb : string

A regularly-updated AFS CellServDB URL or filename (e.g. from AFS)
that this component will copy to local disk. The local AFS client will
get notified of any additions or changes within a cell.

=item /software/components/afsclt/libpam : string

Full path to PAM library to use for (Kerberos) authentication. The
reason this is hooked here instead of in the Kerberos component is
that a valid Kerberos config may be useful on a standalone
(non-AFS-account) system, but as soon as AFS user accounts are present
we absolutely need to properly configure authentication for
them. Besides, this is historic - on Linux we used authconfig to set
the Cell and the PAM config at the same time.

Default is to use the pam_krb5 "flavour" of PAM. If you set this,
please also set the PAM library options below.

=item /software/components/afsclt/libpam_options_auth_auth : string

=item /software/components/afsclt/libpam_options_auth_session : string

=item /software/components/afsclt/libpam_options_auth_passwd : string

=item /software/components/afsclt/libpam_options_auth : string

Options for the PAM library for the "new session starts"
case. C<.._auth> is the default for PAM blocks where nothing is
configured explicitly.

=item /software/components/afsclt/libpam_options_refresh: string

Options for the PAM library for "old session should get refreshed" case, all PAM blocks.

=back

=head1 BUGS

The "debug" and "suidcell" parameters are silently ignored for now.

The component configures Kerberos authentication.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=head2 Components to be run before:

none.

=head2 Components to be run after:

none.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jaroslaw Polok <jaroslaw.polok@cern.ch>

=head1 SEE ALSO

authconfig(1), C<fs help>, iptables documentation

-head1 BUGS

Previous versions insisted on configuring a PAM C<account> entry, 
this didn't really work for local accounts such as I<root>...

=cut


1; #required for Perl modules

### Local Variables: ///
### mode: perl ///
### End: ///
