# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=head1 NAME

NCM::spma - NCM spma configuration component

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item Configure()

Generates or updates the SPMA target configuration file, typically
F</var/lib/spma-target.cf>, and (optionally) runs SPMA.

=item Unconfigure()

Not applicable.

=back

=head1 RESOURCES

=over

=item /software/components/spma/active : boolean

activates/deactivates the component.

=item /software/components/spma/unescape : boolean

if defined and set to false, then it is assumed that the package information in
the profile has not been escaped with PAN's escape() function. This setting is
only meaningful when using a tool different than PAN for generating CDB
profiles.

=item /software/components/spma/tmpdir : string

If defined, set the path to the temporary directory (for compatibility
with -bad- packages that need to remove the sticky bit from /tmp)

=back

Flags for SPMA setting changes (see man spma(1) for details) in spma.conf

Important note: Once a flag is set in the CDB profile and the
component is run, it is _not_ sufficient to remove it from the CDB
profile for returning to the old spma.conf configuration
file. Configuration entries which are not defined in the CDB profile
are kept untouched in spma.conf.

=over

=item /software/components/spma/userpkgs : string ("yes|no")

=item /software/components/spma/userprio : string ("yes|no")

=item /software/components/spma/protectkernel : string ("yes|no")

=item /software/components/spma/packager : string ("rpm|pkg|..")

=item /software/components/spma/usespmlist : string ("yes|no")

=item /software/components/spma/rpmexclusive: string ("yes|no")


=item /software/components/spma/debug: string ("0|1|2|3|4|5")

=item /software/components/spma/verbose: string ("0|1")


=item /software/components/spma/cachedir: string

=item /software/components/spma/localcache: string ("yes|no")


=item /software/components/spma/proxy: string ("yes|no")

=item /software/components/spma/proxytype: string ("forward|reverse")

=item /software/components/spma/proxyhost: string

=item /software/components/spma/proxyport: string

=back

Flag for running SPMA after updating the configuration:

=over

=item /software/components/spma/run: string ("yes|no")

Note that the SPMA itself will honour the "no-action" mode when ncm-ncd is
invoked with B<--noaction>.

=back

Flag for indicating if SPMA should use the head node as specified under
/hardware/headnode/name instead of 'proxyhost':

=over

=item /software/components/spma/headnode: boolean

Note that if /hardware/headnode/name is not defined, but the above resource is set to
true, then the component will not change the defined proxy host if any.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=head2 Components to be run before:

none.

=head2 Components to be run after:

none. However, since the SPMA is typically used for updating components
in RPM/PKG format, it is convenient to run the SPMA component before any
other.

=head1 FILES

F</etc/spma.conf>, F</var/lib/spma-target.cf>.

=head1 NOTES

This component honors the B<--noaction> mode.

=head1 BUGS

The typing of the CDB entries is yet to be done: for now, all of them are
strings.

=head1 AUTHOR

German Cancio <German.Cancio@cern.ch>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ncm-ncd(1)

=cut


