# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<nrpe> component manages the NRPE daemon, which executes Nagios
plugins on remote hosts. The NRPE service can be run under xinetd or
as a stand-alone daemon. This component only supports the stand-alone
way.

=head1 COMPONENT STRUCTURE

All fields are mandatory, unless it is explicitly stated:

=over 4

=item * /software/components/nrpe/add_rc : boolean

Whether or not to start this script at boot time.


=item * /software/components/nrpe/cmds : string {}

Named list with the command lines to be run. It is indexed with the
command identifiers. Check Nagios' documentation for more information
on command definitions.

=item * /software/components/nrpe/user : string

User the daemon will run as. For instance, 'nagios'.

=item * /software/components/nrpe/group : string

Group the daemon will run as. For instance, 'nagios'.

=item * /software/components/nrpe/allowed_hosts : type_hostname[]

List of hosts allowed to order the NRPE daemon to run commands.

=item * /software/components/nrpe/allowed_cmdargs : boolean

Whether or not the remote hosts are allowed to pass arguments to the
commands offered by NRPE. It is false by default, so arguments are not
allowed for security reasons.

=item * /software/components/nrpe/prefix : string

Optional field.

Optional prefix for every single command to be run. For instance,
"/usr/bin/sudo"

=item * /software/components/nrpe/weak_random : boolean

Whether or not allow weak random number generation.

=item * /software/components/nrpe/port : boolean

The port the daemon will listen to.

=item * /software/components/nrpe/timeout : long

Timeout for commands, in seconds.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

http://nagios.sourceforge.net/docs/3_0/toc.html

=cut
