# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}

# Coding style: emulate <TAB> characters with 4 spaces, thanks!
################################################################################

=head1 NAME

NCM::krb5clt - NCM Kerberos5 client configuration component

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 2

=item Configure()

Writes /etc/krb5.conf according to the values in CDB. The syntax
should be compatible with both MIT and Heimdal.

Unless explicitly specified below, library default values will be used
(i.e. nothing written in the config file).


=item Unconfigure()

(no actions, the old config file is left in place).

=back

=head1 HISTORY

An early version (v1) of this component used a different configuration
mechanism that essentially translated the CDB configuration tree into
the (also tree-like) .ini file structure for /etc/krb5.conf. This
mechanism is deprecated and will dissapear in a future version.

This turned out to be overly complex, so now (v2) the component uses
a template with explicitly-named options.

=head1 RESOURCES

=over 2

=item /software/components/krb5clt/active : boolean

activates/deactivates the component.

=item /software/components/krb5clt/default_realm : string

If this variable is set, the "new" template-based configuration is used.
Please see the matching I<etc_krb5.conf.tpl>-file for the supported
configuration options.
For PAM-specific options: please validate against the pam_krb5 man page
whether your version supports the same options as the component.

=item /software/components/krb5clt/ : nlist

If C<default_realm> isn't set, the old-style translator is used.
The config tree follows closely the ini-style format of the actual
config file, top-level entries are made in to [sections], nlists below
are converted into key = { .. } records and leaf elements are
converted into key=value pairs.

Only a fixed list of top-level entries is currently recognized, to
prevent mistakes. Several well-known default/optional entries like
"active" will be tolerated, everything else generates a warning.

Due to deficiencies in the pan naming scheme, Elements can be replaced
by a nlist bogus_name = { NAME=>.., DATA=>..}.

A list will be joined into a multiword value (whitespace between
elements). A list can contain a string "RANDOM_WEIGHTS" as last
element, which needs to contain as many elements as the list it refers
to, and which will trigger a semi-random (based on IP) weighted
rotation of the entries in the list. E.g.

list = (element1, element2, element3, RANDOM_WEIGHTS = "20 40 40")

will on average (assuming uniform IP distribution) have
 20% of machines use (element1, element2, element3)
 40% of machines use (element2, element3, element1)
 40% of machines use (element3, element1, element2)

Currently only used for the KDC list.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=head2 Components to be run before:

none.

=head2 Components to be run after:

none.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jan.Iven@cern.ch

=head1 SEE ALSO

ncm-ncd(1), krb5.conf(5)

=cut

### Local Variables: ///
### mode: perl ///
### End: ///
