# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}
# ${build-info}

=head1 NAME

ncm-postfix: Postfix server configuration

=head1 RESOURCES

=head2 C<< /software/components/postfix >>

The configuration information for the component. This structure
contains three fields:

=over

=item C<main>

An nlist with all the possible configuration values for
C</etc/postfix/main.cf>.

=item C<master>

A list with all entries for C</etc/postfix/master.cf>.
For each line, we have to provide:

=over

=item C<name> : string

Name of the entry (first field in the line).

=item C<type> : string

Type of service/socket for this entry.

=item C<private> : boolean

Defaults to true.

=item C<unprivileged> : boolean

Defaults to true

=item C<chroot> : boolean

Defaults to true

=item C<maxproc> : long

Maximum number of processes that may be instantiated following this
line Defaults to 100.

=item C<wakeup> : long

=item C<command>

=back

=item C<databases>

An optional structure describing additional Postfix databases (lookup
tables in Postfix terminology). See
L<http://www.postfix.org/DATABASE_README.html> for more information.

Each subtree is associated with a class of lookup tables. Each class
of lookup tables is an nlist, in which the keys are the file names
(relative to C<< /etc/postfix >>) that configure the access to such a database.

Currently, only LDAP lookups can be described, see
L<http://www.postfix.org/LDAP_README.html>

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Minimal configuration

An empty nlist is valid for C<main.cf>:

  "/software/components/postfix/main" = nlist();

=head2 Storing aliases in LDAP

Declaring an alias database stored in an LDAP server can be achieved as follows:

  "/software/components/postfix/main/alias_maps" = append(
    nlist(
      "type", "ldap",
      "name", "/etc/postfix/ldap-aliases.cf"));

And we can instruct Postfix to access this database:

  prefix "/software/components/postfix/databases/ldap/ldap-aliases.cf";

  "server_host" = "foo.bar.com";
  "search_base" = "OU=foo,CN=bar";
  "query_filter" = "(an-ldap-filter)";
  "result_format" = "%s";

=cut
