# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}

#
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the EU DataGrid Software License.  You should
# have received a copy of the license with this program, and the license
# is published at http://eu-datagrid.web.cern.ch/eu-datagrid/license.html.
#
# THE FOLLOWING DISCLAIMER APPLIES TO ALL SOFTWARE CODE AND OTHER MATERIALS
# CONTRIBUTED IN CONNECTION WITH THIS PROGRAM.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS LICENSED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
# "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
# LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
# FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND ANY WARRANTY OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, ARE
# DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS
# BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY,
# OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
# OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
# BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
# LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
# NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
# SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. THIS
# SOFTWARE MAY BE REDISTRIBUTED TO OTHERS ONLY BY EFFECTIVELY USING
# THIS OR ANOTHER EQUIVALENT DISCLAIMER AS WELL AS ANY OTHER LICENSE
# TERMS THAT MAY APPLY.
#
################################################################################
# Coding style: emulate <TAB> characters with 4 spaces, thanks!
################################################################################

=head1 NAME

NCM::download - NCM download configuration component

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item Configure()

Returns
error in case of failure.

=item Unconfigure()

not available.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Downloads files onto the local machine during the configuration, and
optionally post-processes the files. The download is achieved by
invoking "curl", so any URLs acceptable to curl (including local
URL's) are allowed.

=head1 RESOURCES

=over

=item /software/components/download/active : boolean

activates/deactivates the component.

=item /software/components/download/proto : string

The default protocol to use for any sources which do not
specify the protocol.

=item /software/components/download/server : string

The default server hostname to use for any sources which
do not specify the source.

=item /software/components/download/proxyhosts : list

A list of strings. Each string should be a hostname (and possibly with ':port'
suffix). If this is specifed, then a reverse proxy configuration is assumed
for all of the file source. Whenever a file is downloaded, each of the
proxy hosts will be used first before attempting the original source URL. The
first proxy host to respond will be used for all subsequent download attempts.

=item /software/components/download/files : nlist

An nlist keyed by the escaped filename that is required for the
destination file. The value associated with each key should be an
nlist containing the following values:

=over 4

=item href

A URL (either absolute, or relative) that describes the source of the
file. The URL can be specified as relative by ommitting the server
name and/or the protocol, in which case the component defaults will be
used. Local files can be used as source, such as
file://localhost/etc/foo.txt or even file:///etc/foo.txt.

=item post

If specified, then the value will be used as a command to run
whenever the file is updated. Note that if the update is
optimised away by the download process (e.g. if the file is
already up-to-date), the command will still be executed, so it
is the responsibility of this command to determine what work
needs to be done, if any.

=item gssapi

If true, then curl will be invoked with GSSAPI Negotiate
extension enabled, using the host keytab as the identity.

=item proxy

If false, then the proxy configuration will be ignored for
this file. This defaults to true. This has no effect when
there are no proxy hosts defined.

=item perm

If defined, sets the permissions of the file to the defined
permissions (defined in octal, e.g. 0644).

=item owner

If defined, sets the ownership to given user (name or number).

=item group

If defined, sets the group ownership to the given group (name or number).

=back

=back

=head1 FILES MODIFIED

The component download modifies only the files specified within
the configuration.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=head2 Components to be run before:

none.

=head2 Components to be run after:

none.

=head1 EXAMPLES

  "/software/components/download/active" = true;
  "/software/components/download" = nlist(
	"server", "mydownloadserver.com",
	"proto",  "http",
  );
  "/software/components/download/files" = npush(
	escape("/etc/passwd"), nlist(
                 "href", "https://secure.my.domain",
		 "post", "/usr/local/mk_passwd"
               ),
  );
  "/software/components/download/files" = npush(
	escape("/usr/local/foo.txt"), nlist(
                 "href", "file:///etc/foo.txt",
		 "owner", "john",
                 "perm", "0400"
               )
  );

=head1 BUGS

none known.

=head1 SEE ALSO

ncm-ncd(1)

=cut


