# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}

=head1 NAME

ncm-${project.artifactId}: Configure services whose config format can be
rendered via C<CAF::TextRender>.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

${project.artifactId}

=head1 RESOURCES

=head2 /software/components/${project.artifactId}

The configuration information for the component.  It is an nlist of
C<services>, indexed by absolute path. Each service contains:

=over 4

=item * C<mode> : long

File permissions. Defaults to 0644.

=item * C<owner> : string

File owner. Defaults to root.

=item * C<group> : string

File group. Defaults to root.

=item * C<backup> ? string

Extension for the file's backup.

=item * C<module> : string

Module to render the configuration file. See L<CONFIGURATION MODULES>
below.

=item * C<daemons> ? C<caf_service_action{}>

An nlist with foreach daemon the C<CAF::Service> action to take
if the file changes.

Even if multiple C<services> are associated to the same daemon, each action
for the daemon will be taken at most once.

If multiple actions are to be taken for the same daemon, all actions
will be taken (no attempt to optimize is made).

=item * C<preamble> ? string

Text to place at start of file.

It can be useful to include context in a configuration file, in the form of
a comment, such as how it was generated. Most of the formats that can be
output by this component support "comment" lines, but none of the modules that
it uses will generate them. The preamble attribute will be written out
verbatim, before the contents is generated. No comment character is added,
the user must specify this as part of the preamble string.

=item * C<contents>

A free-form structure describing the valid entries for the
configuration file. It is recommended to define another type for each
config file, and bind it to these contents, to get the best
validation.

=item * C<element>

Predefined conversions from C<< EDG::WP4::CCM::TextRender >>:

=over

=item C<yesno> ? boolean

Convert boolean to (lowercase) 'yes' and 'no'.

=item C<YESNO> ? boolean

Convert boolean to (uppercase) 'YES' and 'NO'.

=item C<truefalse> ? boolean

Convert boolean to (lowercase) 'true' and 'false'.

=item C<TRUEFALSE> ? boolean

Convert boolean to (uppercase) 'TRUE' and 'FALSE'.

=item C<doublequote> ? boolean

Convert string to doublequoted string.

=item C<singlequote> ? boolean

Convert string to singlequoted string.

=back

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION MODULES

The following formats can be rendered via C<CAF::TextRender>:

=over 4

=item * general

Uses Perl's L<Config::General>. This leads to configuration files
similar to this one:

    <nlist>
      <another nlist>
        scalar value
        another scalar value
      </another nlist>
    </nlist>
    list_element 0
    list_element 1
    list_element 2

=item * tiny

Uses Perl's L<Config::Tiny>, typically for C<key = value> files or
INI-like files with sections separated by C<[section]> headers.

=item * yaml

Uses Perl's L<YAML::XS> for rendering YAML configuration files.

=item * json

Uses L<JSON::XS> for rendering JSON configuration files.

=item * properties

Uses L<Config::Properties> for rendering Java-style configuration
files.

=item * Any other string

Uses L<Template::Toolkit> for rendering configuration files in formats
supplied by the user.

The name of the template is given by this field. It B<must> be a path
relative to C<metaconfig/>, and the component actively sanitizes this
field.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Configuring /etc/ccm.conf

The well-known /etc/ccm.conf can be defined like this:

=head3 Define a valid structure for the file

    type ccm_conf_file = {
        "profile" : type_absoluteURI
        "debug" : long(0..5)
        "force" : boolean = false
        ...
    };

    bind "/software/components/metaconfig/services/{/etc/ccm.conf}/contents" = ccm_conf_file;

=head3 Fill in the contents

    prefix "/software/components/metaconfig/services/{/etc/ccm.conf}"

    "contents/profile" = "http://www.google.com";
    "module" = "general";

=head3 And that's it

Now, just compile and deploy. You should get the same results as with
old good ncm-ccm.

=head2 Generating an INI-like file

We can generate simple INI-like files with the C<Config::Tiny> module.

=head3 Example schema

Let's imagine the file has two sections with one key each:

    # This is the first section, labeled "s1"
    type section_1 = {
       "a" : long
    };

    # This is the second section, labeled "s2"
    type section_2 = {
       "b" : string
    };

    # This is the full file structure
    type my_ini_file = {
       "s1" : section_1
       "s2" : section_2
    };

    bind "/software/components/metaconfig/services/{/etc/foo.ini}/contents" = my_ini_file;

=head3 Describing the file

We'll define the permissions, who renders it and which daemons are associated to it.

    prefix "/software/components/metaconfig/services/{/etc/foo.ini}";

    "mode" = 0600;
    "owner" = "root";
    "group" = "root";
    "module" = "tiny";
    "daemons/foo" = "restart";
    "daemons/bar" = "reload";

And we'll ensure the module that renders it is installed (Yum-based
syntax here):

    "/software/packages/{perl-Config-Tiny}" = nlist();

=head3 Describing the file's contents

And now, we only have to specify the contents:

    prefix "/software/components/metaconfig/services/{/etc/foo.ini}/contents";
    "s1/a" = 42;
    "s2/b" = "hitchicker";

=head3 And that's it

That's it!  When you deploy your configuration you should see your
/etc/foo.ini in the correct location.

=cut
