# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}
# ${build-info}

=head1 NAME

ncm-accounts: NCM component to manage the local accounts on the machine.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<accounts> component manages the local accounts on a machine. LDAP
authentication depends on the LDAP configuration, which is handled by
C<< ncm-authconfig >>.

Shadowing of passwords is also controlled by C<< ncm-authconfig >>.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

accounts provides several functions as an API to handle creation of users and groups.
They are mainly targeted at helping creating consistent accounts across machines,
using a central definition of all accounts and a per machine list of accounts to be
actually created.

All these functions update a structure_accounts (return value may be assigned to
"/software/components/accounts").

Behaviour of these functions can be customized by definining some variables before
calling them, mainly :

=over

=item ACCOUNTS_USER_HOME_ROOT

defines default root for home directory (Default: C<< /home >>)

=item ACCOUNTS_USER_CREATE_HOME

defines if home directory must be created by default (Default: C<< true >>)

=item ACCOUNTS_USER_AUTOGROUP

defines if a group must be defined with the same name as the user, if no group
has been explicitly specified (Default: C<< true >>).

=item ACCOUNTS_USER_CHECK_GROUP

defines if the default group must be created if it doesn't exist, with a gid
equals to uid (Default: C<< true >>)

=item ACCOUNTS_USER_COMMENT

defines a default value for user comment (Default: C<< Created by ncm-accounts >>)

=item ACCOUNTS_GROUP_COMMENT

defines a default value for group comment (Default: C<< Created by ncm-accounts >>)

=back

=head2 create_accounts_from_db(userList:nlist, users:list:optional, accountType:optional)

This function creates users or groups from a nlist containing user or group characteristics.
It updates a structure_accounts (return value may be assigned to C<< /software/components/accounts >>).

User/group characteristics must be provided as structure_userinfo/structure_groupinfo.

Second parameter, if presents, gives the list of users to create from user_list.
This allows to use a unique user/group definition for all nodes, to warrant consistency
between nodes.

By default (accountType undefined or 0), this function creates user accounts.
To create groups, set third parameter (accountType) to 1.


=head2 create_group(groupname:string, params:structure_groupinfo)

This function creates a group, applying some defaults defined by variables and checking
information consistency.
It updates a structure_accounts (return value may be assigned to C<< /software/components/accounts >>).



=head2 create_user(username:string, params:structure_userinfo)

This function creates a user, applying some defaults defined by variables and checking
 information consistency (e.g. group existence).
It updates a structure_accounts (return value may be assigned to Default: C<< /software/components/accounts >>).

=head2 keep_user_group(user_or_group:string or list of string)

This functions adds a user or group to the kept_users or kept_groups resources. The
argument can be a string or list of strings. The return value can be assigned to 
C<< /software/components/accounts/kept_users >> or C<< /software/components/accounts/kept_groups >>.

=head1 RESOURCES

=head2 C<< /software/components/accounts/rootpwd >>

The crypted root password for the machine.

=head2 C<< /software/components/accounts/users >>

An nlist of users to configure on the node.  The key is the account
name (or base name for pool accounts). The numerical UID is
mandatory. The available fields are:

=over

=item comment

real name or comment about user.  Defaults to user name itself.

=item homeDir

full path of the home directory of the user.  Defaults
to the system default. For pool accounts this will be used as a
base for creating numbered home directories; if this is not set
the username will be used as a base.

=item createHome

boolean indicating whether to create a home directory for the user.
Defaults to false.

=item groups

a list of groups for this user.  The first group listed
is the primary group.  If this is not given, then it will default to a
group named identically to the user name. NOTE: If this group already
exists, then the command to add the user will fail.

=item password

the crypted password entry for the user.  No
default. If not given it will result in a locked account, except if
the account already exists and has a defined password: in this case, it will
be kept.

=item shell

the shell for the user. If it is defined as an empty string, the current shell
is preserved for an existing account (for a new account, it will remain undefined,
meaning that the default shell on the system will be used). 

Defaults to /bin/bash.

=item uid

the uid value for this account. Mandatory. This is interpreted as the
base uid value for pool accounts (i.e. poolSize > 0).

=item poolStart

the index at which to start the pool accounts.  The
default is 0.  This must be a non-negative number.

=item poolDigits

the number of digits to which the pool account
numbers are padded. For example a value of 3 will create accounts
atlas000, atlas001, etc. The default is the number of digits in the
highest-numbered pool account.

=item poolSize

number of pool accounts to create.  The default is
0 which indicates that it is a normal (unique) account.  A value
greater than 0 will create a set of numbered accounts with the given
user name as a base.  E.g. a base name of "atlas" and a poolSize=3
will create three accounts atlas0 atlas1 atlas2.

=back

=head2 C<< /software/components/accounts/groups >>

An nlist of groups to configure on the node.  The key is the group
name.  At least one field must be specified.

=over

=item comment

ignored, but provided so gid doesn't have to be

=item gid

the optional gid number for the group

=item requiredMembers

An optional list of users that must be added as member of the group. The users don't have to be
local users, defined in the configuration.

Note 1: group members present in the F</etc/group> file but not defined in the current configuration 
are removed by B<ncm-accounts> if they are not required members.

Note 2: for users defined in the configuration the preferred way to add them to groups is by defining
their C<groups> property.

=item replaceMembers (boolean)

When true, current members of the group (if existing) are replaced by the groups defined in the
configuration (coming from C<requiredMembers> and user groups). If false, groups from the
configuration are merged with existing ones.

D: false

=back

=head2 C<< /software/components/accounts/login_defs >>

A nlist of values to be set in /etc/login.defs. NOTE: This
configuration file is specific to RedHat-like systems; setting will be
ignored on other systems.  This file configures all kinds of default
settings such as:

=over

=item uid_min, uid_max

Min/max values for automatic uid selection in useradd.

=item gid_min, gid_max

Min/max values for automatic gid selection in groupadd.

=item pass_max_days

Maximum number of days a password may be used.

=item pass_min_days

Minimum number of days allowed between password changes.

=item pass_min_len

Minimum acceptable password length.

=item pass_warn_age

Number of days warning given before a password expires.

=item create_home

If useradd should create home directories for users by default.

=back

=head2 C<< /software/components/accounts/remove_unknown >>

Flag to indicate whether unknown accounts should be deleted.  The
default is false.  The root account can never be removed.

=head2 C<< /software/components/accounts/preserved_accounts >>

This property may have 3 values: 'none', 'system', 'dyn_user_group'. It controls
the accounts/groups that have to be preserved when C<< remove_unknown >> is true 
(it has no effect when C<< remove_unknown=false >>).

The effect of each possible value is:

=over

=item system

all accounts/groups in the system range (strictly below GID/UID_MIN as
defined in /etc/login.defs) are preserved even though they are not present
in the configuration. It is possible to use login_defs/uid_min and
login_defs/gid_min properties to control the preserved ranges.

=item dyn_user_group

all accounts/groups in the system range and in the
range used for dynamic uid/gid allocation by useradd command, ie. all
accounts/groups with uid/gid less or equal to GID/UID_MAX as defined in 
/etc/login.defs, are preserved. The exact list of accounts preserved
depends on UID/GID_MAX value. It is possible to use login_defs/uid_max and
login_defs/gid_max properties to control the preserved ranges. Not that
C<< remove_unknown=true >> with preserved_accounts=dyn_user_group and UID/GID_MAX
set to the highest possible IDs is equivalent to C<< remove_unknown=false >>.

=item none

all existing accounts/groups not present in the configuration are
removed from the system (except root).

=back

B< Default: > C<< dyn_user_group >>

=head1 LIMITATIONS

=head2 Local users belonging to LDAP groups

When a local user has to belong to a group defined only on LDAP, a
local group with the desired numerical ID is created.

This group has the same name as the user ID. It will be removed on the
next run of the component if C<< remove_unknown >> is set to true. This is
somewhat ugly, but doesn't affect the system behaviour at all, so it
B<won't> be fixed.

=head2 nsswitch.conf status

The component has been tested with C<< files >> as the primary source on
C<< /etc/nsswitch.conf >> for C<< group >> and C<< passwd >>. Different settings may
produce strange behaviour. These settings are not controlled by
ncm-accounts but by C<< ncm-authconfig >>.

=cut
