# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}

=pod

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<filesystems> component manages the filesystems on a node. It is able
to create and remove blockdevices without restarting or
re-installing.

These filesystems will be later mounted/unmounted, and added/removed
from C<< /etc/fstab >>, using ncm-fstab.

The component doesn't provide any special resources at the moment. It
just watches for changes on C<< /system/filesystems >> and C<< /system/blockdevices >>
and creates new filesystems, if needed.
You can also use ncm-filesystems to replace ncm-fstab :
If C<< manage_blockdevs >> is set to false, only the ncm-fstab code will run.

A blockdevice is useful only for its ability to hold a
filesystem. Blockdevices with no filesystems associated will not be
created. If you want any such device, create a filesystem with
C<< "type"="none" >> and C<< "mount"=false >>.

B<Note:> It will also remove filesystems and blockdevices that are not listed
on the profile (or have been removed).

=head2 Examples

We will define a software RAID 1 composed of three disks, one volume
group named Springfield on it, and two logical volumes (Simpsons and
Flanders) on it. They will be mounted on C<< /Evergreen_Terrace/742 >> and
C<< /Evergreen_Terrace/740 >>, respectively.

This is how the block devices definition looks like:

 "/system/blockdevices" = nlist (
	"physical_devs", nlist (
		"hda", nlist ("label", "none"),
		"hdb", nlist ("label", "none"),
		"hdc", nlist ("label", "none")
		),
	# No partitions here
	"md", nlist (
		"md0", nlist (
			"device_list", list (
				"physical_devs/hda",
				"physical_devs/hdb",
				"physical_devs/hdc"
				),
			"raid_level", "RAID1",
			"stripe_size", 64
			),
		),
	"volume_groups", nlist (
		"Springfield", nlist (
			"device_list", list ("md/md0")
			),
		),
	"logical_volumes", nlist (
		"Simpsons", nlist (
			"size", 5*GB,
			"volume_group", "Springfield"
			),
		"Flanders", nlist (
			"size", 4*GB,
			"volume_group", "Springfield"
			)
		)
	);


And then, we can define the filesystems:

 "/system/filesystems" = list (
	nlist (
		"mountpoint", "/EverGreenTerrace/740",
		"block_device", "logical_volumes/Flanders",
		"mount", true,
		"mountopts", "defaults",
		"type", "ext2", # God saves from crashes, you know
		"freq", 0,
		"pass", 0,
		"format", false,
		"preserve", true
		),
	nlist (
		"mountpoint", "/EverGreenTerrace/742",
		"block_device", "logical_volumes/Simpsons",
		"mount", true,
		"mountopts", "defaults",
		"type", "xfs", # Lisa's on charge!
		"freq", 0,
		"pass", 0,
		"format", false,
		"preserve", true
		),
	);

=cut
