# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}
# ${build-info}

=head1 NAME

ncm-${project.artifactId}: Component for running puppet standalone within quattor

=head1 DESCRIPTION

${project.artifactId}

=head1 RESOURCES

=head2 /software/components/${project.artifactId}/puppetconf

Defines the configuration for quattor. Each item is a section of the /etc/puppet/puppet.conf file. The section '[main]' is mandatory.
Other sectiond may be added

=head2 /software/components/${project.artifactId}/puppetconf/main

Each item is a parameter in the '[main]' section of the puppet.conf file. Below the mandaroy parameters

=over 4

=item * C<logdir> : 

Puppet log dir. Defaults to /var/log/puppet.

=item * C<rundir> : string

Puppet run dir. Defaults to /var/log/puppet.

=back

=head2 /software/components/${project.artifactId}/hieraconf

Defines the configuration for hiera. Each item is a key definition in the /etc/puppet/hiera.yaml file. Here are the default values.
The default is 

    ---
    :backends:
    - yaml
    :hierarchy:
    - quattor
    :yaml:
          :datadir: /etc/puppet/hieradata

=head2 /software/components/${project.artifactId}/nodefiles

named list of node specific manifests. The component will run "puppet --apply /etc/puppet/manifests/<file>" for each item <file> of the nlist.
The parameters of each item are.

=over 4

=item * C<contents> : string

content of the file

The default for "nodefiles" is one file quattor_default.pp with content "hiera_include('classes')".

=head2 /software/components/${project.artifactId}/hieradata

Data to be passed to the hiera config. Teh data will be written in /etc/puppet/hieradata/quattor.yaml. Note: the nlist keys will be unescaped by the component.

=head2 /software/components/${project.artifactId}/modules

Named list of modules to be downloaded from the puppetlab forge. Each module has the following parameters

=over 4

=item * C<version> ? string

version of the module.

= back
= back 

=head1 AUTHOR

${author-info}

=head1 TODO

Better way to place the defaults on hieraconf parameter.

Downloading files from other sources than PuppetLabs forge.

=cut
