# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


###############################################################################
# This is 'tomcat.pod', a ncm-tomcat's file
###############################################################################
#
#
###############################################################################
# Coding style: emulate <TAB> characters with 4 spaces, thanks!
###############################################################################
=head1 NAME

NCM::tomcat - NCM tomcat component

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item Configure()

Transforms CDB tomcat configuration into the tomcat config file and
related XMLs.

=item Unconfigure()

Not implemented.
 
=back

=back

=head1 Tomcat Config Structure


Tomcat5 configuration is well documented at 

    http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-5.0-doc/config/index.html .

Here we just provide a short introduction about the main concept.

Tomcat has a main configuration file (/etc/tomcat5/tomcat5.conf), which in fact only defines a few
environment variables. More detailed config parameters are specified in XML files. The most important
is for the main Tomcat server instance (/etc/tomcat5/Server.xml). There is one that defines
users who can access the Tomcat admin portal (/etc/tomcat5/tomcat-users.xml)

Further to the basic configuration, each web service can have it's own configuration.
These XMLs are kept in the /etc/tomcat5/Catalina/localhost directory. The files are
named after the web service component they apply to.


=back

=head2 CDB Templates

=over

=item pro_declaration_component_tomcat.tpl


The component basically puts the variables described at http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-5.0-doc/config/index.html
to CDB. The hierarchical structure is reflected in the record types created 
for each Tomcat configuration element. The only thing to mention here is
that inside each of them, there are 2 branches ('attrs' and 'nested'), that enable 
a distinction between the I<attributes> and the I<nested elements>, that belong to 
a Tomcat configuration element.

There is one part of the tomcat config, that differs. This is type 
structure_tomcat_config, which is a key-value structured record (
values are basic values, no embeddation). This type describes the
contents of the main tomcat config file.

On the highest level (/software/components/tomcat), there are 4
branches, to separate the above mentioned groups of configuration
variables. These are 

=over

=item 'conf' 

Tomcat configuration. Will be transformed to 
/etc/tomcat5/tomcat5.conf).

=item 'Server' 

Main server confguration (/etc/tomcat5/server.xml).

=item 'tomcat-users'

Users of the Tomcat admin web interface (/etc/tomcat5/tomcat-users.xml)

=item 'webapps'

Under this branch individual applications' environment can be defined. 
The /software/components/tomcat/webapps/<app_name> branches the 
NCM component will write in /etc/tomcat5/Catalina/localhos/<app_name> 
files. 


=back

=item pro_software_component_tomcat.tpl

Necessary template with activation flag


=item pro_component_defaults_tomcat.tpl

Default Tomcat and main server configuration

=back

=head1 Examples

Restart tomcat after execution of component (default: true).

    '/software/components/tomcat/serviceopt/RestartTomcat' = 'true';

Tomcat settings


    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/mainconf/CATALINA_BASE' = "/usr/share/tomcat5";
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/mainconf/CATALINA_HOME' = "/var/lib/tomcat5";

Port definition for the main server

    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/Server/attrs/port' = 8005;
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/Server/attrs/shutdown' = 'SHUTDOWN';

    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/Server/nested/GlobalNamingResources/nested/Resource/0/attrs/auth' = 'Container';
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/Server/nested/GlobalNamingResources/nested/Resource/0/attrs/name' = 'UserDatabase';
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/Server/nested/GlobalNamingResources/nested/Resource/0/attrs/type' = 'org.apache.catalina.UserDatabase';
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/Server/nested/GlobalNamingResources/nested/ResourceParams/nested/parameter/0/name' = 'factory';
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/Server/nested/GlobalNamingResources/nested/ResourceParams/nested/parameter/0/value' = 'org.apache.catalina.users.MemoryUserDatabaseFactory';
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/Server/nested/GlobalNamingResources/nested/ResourceParams/nested/parameter/1/name' = 'pathname';
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/Server/nested/GlobalNamingResources/nested/ResourceParams/nested/parameter/1/value' = 'conf/tomcat-users.xml';

Results in configuration (/etc/tomcat5/server.xml)

    <Server port="8005" shutdown="SHUTDOWN">
        <GlobalNamingResources>
            <Resource auth="Container" name="UserDatabase" type="org.apache.catalina.UserDatabase" />
            <ResourceParams name="UserDatabase">
                <parameter>
                    <name>factory</name>
                    <value>org.apache.catalina.users.MemoryUserDatabaseFactory</value>
                </parameter>
                <parameter>
                    <name>pathname</name>
                    <value>conf/tomcat-users.xml</value>
                </parameter>
            </ResourceParams>
        </GlobalNamingResources>

Definitions for a web application

    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/webapps/my-ws/Context/attrs/docBase' = '/opt/my-ws/my-ws.war';
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/webapps/my-ws/Context/attrs/reloadable' = 'false';
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/webapps/my-ws/Context/attrs/debug' = 0;
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/webapps/my-ws/Context/attrs/path' = '/my-ws';
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/webapps/my-ws/Context/nested/Environment/attrs/name' = 'my-ws.configuration';
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/webapps/my-ws/Context/nested/Environment/attrs/type' = 'java.lang.String';
    '/software/components/tomcat/conf/webapps/my-ws/Context/nested/Environment/attrs/value' = '/opt/my-ws/gridview.properties';
    [..]

Results in config file /etc/tomcat5/Catalina/localhost/my-ws.xml with
contents:

    <Context debug="0" docBase="/opt/my-ws/my-ws.war" path="/my-ws" reloadable= "false">
        <Environment name="my-ws.configuration" type="java.lang.String" value="/opt/my-ws/my-ws.properties" />
            [..]



=head1 httpd conf -> CDB template

=over

In order to be able to generate CDB templates from 
Tomcat configuration files, an additional script is provided 
to the component. This can be found in CVS together with 
the component's code. The script creates the contents of the
corresponding CDB template, however it does not double-check
the output with the Tomcat type declarations. Therefore human interaction 
is probably needed to do a few corrections after.


=head1 RESOURCES

=over

=item /software/components/httpd/active : boolean

activates/deactivates the component.

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Judit Novak <Judit.Novak@cern.ch>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ncd(1)

=cut


