# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<gmond> component manages Ganglia's gmond daemon.
This daemon collects information at a node and uses multicast to distribute it
over the network.

=head2 GMOND

The organization of the schema is very similar to the layout of the resulting configuration file.
Please read Ganglia's documentation on the configuration of gmond for details.

=over 4

=item * /software/components/gmond/file : string

The location of the configuration file. The correct value differs between 
Ganglia 3.0 (/etc/gmond.conf) and Ganglia 3.1 (/etc/ganglia/gmond.conf).
There is no default value.

=item * /software/components/gmond/cluster

Cluster configuration with attributes name, owner, latlong and url.

=item * /software/components/gmond/host

Host configuration with attribute location.

=item * /software/components/gmond/globals

Configuration of gmond, with attributes daemonize, setuid, user, debug_level,
mute, deaf, host_dmax, cleanup_threshold, gexec, send_metadata_interval and module_dir.

=item * /software/components/gmond/udp_send_channel

List of UDP channels to send information to. 
Per channel the attributes mcast_join, mcast_if, host, port and ttl may be configured.

=item * /software/components/gmond/udp_recv_channel

List of UDP channels to receive information from. 
Per channel the attributes mcast_join, mcast_if, bind, port, family and an acl may be configured.

=item * /software/components/gmond/tcp_accept_channel

List of TCP channels from which information is accepted.
Per channel the attributes bind, port, family, timeout and an acl may be configured.

=item * /software/components/gmond/collection_group

List of collection groups.
Per collection group the attributes collect_once, collect_every, time_threshold and a list of
metric descriptions can be specified.
For each metric, the attributes name, title and value_threshold can be given.

=item * /software/components/gmond/module

List of modules.
Per module the attributes name, language, path, params and param can be specified.

=item * /software/components/gmond/include

Optional list of additional files to include.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

See 
http://ganglia.wiki.sourceforge.net/
for documentation on Ganglia and gmond.

=cut
