################################################################################
# This is 'network.pod', a ncm-network's file
################################################################################
#
# VERSION:    1.2.10, 21/06/10 15:26
# AUTHOR:     Stijn De Weirdt
# MAINTAINER: Stijn De Weirdt
# LICENSE:    http://cern.ch/eu-datagrid/license.html
#
################################################################################
# Coding style: emulate <TAB> characters with 4 spaces, thanks!
################################################################################

=head1 NAME

network: Configure Network Settings

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Working type definitions can be found in the README file.

The I<network> component sets the network settings through C<< /etc/sysconfig/network >>and the various files in C<< /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts >>. Currently only support eth* devices.

For restarting, a sleep value of 15 is used to make sure the restarted network is fully restarted (routing may need some time to come up completely). Because of this, adding/changing lots of things may cause some slowdown.
New/changed settings are first tested by probing the CDB server on the port where the profile should be found. If this fails, the previous settings are reused.

=head1 RESOURCES

=over

=item C<< /system/network/realhostname >>

=item C<< /system/network/hostname >>

=item C<< /system/network/domainname >>

=item C<< /system/network/default_gateway >>

=item C<< /system/network/guess_default_gateway >>

=item C<< /system/network/gatewaydev >>

=item C<< /system/network/nisdomain >>

=item C<< /system/network/nozeroconf >>

=back

These values are used to generate the /etc/sysconfig/network file. ("realhostname", "guess_default_gateway", "default_gateway", "gatewaydev", "nisdomain" and "nozeroconf" are optional).
By setting guess_default_gateway, when default_gateway is not set, the component will try to guess the default gateway using the first configured gateway set on an interface (old style network config). (The default is true for backward compatible behaviour.)

=over

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/[dev][i]/ip >>

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/[dev][i]/netmask >>

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/[dev][i]/broadcast >>

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/[dev][i]/bootproto >>

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/[dev][i]/onboot >>

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/[dev][i]/type >>

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/[dev][i]/device >>

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/[dev][i]/master >>

=back

These values are used to generate the C<< /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-[dev][i] >> files. ( "onboot", "bootproto", "master", "type" and "device" are optional; by default bootproto = static, onboot = yes, type = ethernet and device is the name of the interface used in the templates.)

=over

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/eth[i]/route/[j]/gateway >>

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/eth[i]/route/[j]/address >>

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/eth[i]/route/[j]/netmask >>

=back

These values are used to generate the C<< /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/route-eth[i] >> files as used by ifup-routes. gateway and address should contain numerical values only. If no netmask value is given, 255.255.255.255 is used.

=over

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/eth[i]/aliases/[name]/ip >>

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/eth[i]/aliases/[name]/netmask >>

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/eth[i]/aliases/[name]/broadcast >>

=back

These values are used to generate the C<< /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth[i]:[name] >> files as used by ifup-aliases.

=over

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/eth[i]/aliases/[name]/name >>

=back

This value will be used to name the alias instead of [name]

=over

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/eth[i]/offload/tso >>

=back

Set the TCP segment offload parameter to "off" or "on"

=over

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/eth[i]/ring/[rt]x >>

=back

Set the ethernet transmit or receive buffer ring counts.  See ethtool --show-ring for the values.

=over

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/eth[i]/ethtool/wol >>

=back

Set the wake-on-lan parameter.  See ethtool for more details of the choices.  "d" disables the
wake-on LAN.

=head1 NOZEROCONF

Setting nozeroconf to true stops an interface from being assigned an automatic address in the 169.254. subnet.

=head1 HWADDR

Explicitly set the MAC address for the interfaces in the configuration files. The MAC address is taken from C<< /hardware/cards/nic/eth[i]/hwaddr >>.

=over

=item C<< /system/network/set_hwaddr : boolean >>

Set the default behaviour for all interfaces. The component default is false.

=item C<< /system/network/interfaces/eth[i]/set_hwaddr : boolean >>

Set the behaviour for interface eth[i]. This overrides the default setting.

=back

=head1 CHANNEL BONDING

(see C<< <kernel>/Documentation/networking/bonding.txt >> for more info on the driver options)

To enable channel bonding with quattor using devices eth0 and eth1 to form bond0, proceed as follows:

    include pro_software_component_network;

    "/system/network/interfaces/eth0/bootproto"="none";
    "/system/network/interfaces/eth0/master"="bond0";

    "/system/network/interfaces/eth1/bootproto"="none";
    "/system/network/interfaces/eth1/master"="bond0";

    "/system/network/interfaces/bond0" = NETWORK_PARAMS;
    "/system/network/interfaces/bond0/driver" = "bonding";

    include pro_software_component_modprobe;
    "/software/components/modprobe/modules" = push(nlist("name","bonding","alias","bond0"));
    "/software/components/modprobe/modules" =
    push(nlist("name","bonding","options","mode=6 miimon=100"));

    "/software/components/network/dependencies/pre" = push("modprobe"); 

=head1 VLAN support

Use the C<< vlan[0-9]{0-4} >> interface devices and set the the explicit device name and physdev.
The VLAN ID is the number of the '.' in the device name. C< Physdev > is mandatory for C<< vlan[0-9]{0-4} >> device.
An example:

    "/system/network/interfaces/vlan0" = VLAN_NETWORK_PARAMS;
    "/system/network/interfaces/vlan0/device" = "eth0.3";
    "/system/network/interfaces/vlan0/physdev" = "eth0";


=cut
