# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}
# ${build-info}

=pod

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<libvirtd> component manages the configuration of the
the libvirtd daemon.

=head1 CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS

The base path for all of the configuration parameters is
    /software/components/libvirtd.  The following sections describe the
    elements that are permitted directly below this base path.  With
    further parameters described in each section.  All parameters are
    optional.  Except the configuration file location. 

=head2 libvirtd_config (R '/etc/libvirt/libvirtd.conf')

This string defines the location of the libvirtd configuration file.

=head2 network

This sections contains the networking parameters.

=over 4

=item * listen_tls: 0 or 1, enabled by default

=item * listen_tcp: 0 or 1, disabled by default

=item * tls_port: port number (16514) or service name

=item * tcp_port: port number (16509) or service name

=item * listen_addr (type_hostname): IPv4/v6 address or hostname

=item * mdns_adv: 0 or 1, enabled by default

=item * mdns_name: default string is "Virtualization Host HOSTNAME"

=back

=head2 socket

This section contains the configuration for unix sockets.

=over 4

=item * unix_sock_group: restricted to root by default

=item * unix_sock_ro_perms: octal string, default allows any user

=item * unix_sock_rw_perms: octal string

=item * unix_sock_dir: directory of created sockets

=back 

=head2 authn

This section contains the authentication parameters.

=over 4

=item * auth_unix_ro: C<< 'none|sasl|polkit' >>, default anyone

=item * auth_unix_rw: C<< 'none|sasl|polkit' >>, default polkit

=item * auth_tcp' ? C<< 'none|sasl' >>, should be 'sasl' for production

=item * auth_tls' ? C<< 'none|sasl' >>

=back

=head2 tls

This section contains the parameters for TLS. 

=over 4

=item * key_file: full path to key file

=item * cert_file: full path to certificate file

=item * ca_file: full path to certificate authority certificate

=item * crl_file: fall path to CRL

=back

=head2 authz

This section contains the authorization parameters. 

=over 4

=item * tls_no_verify_certificate: 0 or 1, defaults to verification

=item * tls_allowed_dn_list: list of allowed DNs

=item * sasl_allowed_username_list: list of allowed usernames

=back

=head2 processing

This section contains the parameters used to control the processing. 

=over 4

=item * max_clients: maximum number of clients

=item * min_workers: minimum number of workers

=item * max_workers: maximum number of workers

=item * max_requests: maximum number of requests

=item * max_client_requests: maximum number of client requests

=back

=head2 logging

This section contains the parameters used to control the logging.

=over 4

=item * log_level: 4=errors,3=warnings,2=info,1=debug,0=none

=item * log_filters: list of filters, see man for format

=item * log_outputs: list of outputs, see man for format

=back

=cut
