# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=head1 NAME

dirperm: permissions and file/directory creation NCM component
 
=head1 DESCRIPTION

Object to set permissions and ownership of files and directories.
Will create directories if they do not exist (with the proper
permissions).  Useful, e.g., to give every pool-user a ".globus"
directory in its $HOME, or to create a bunch of home directories for
poolaccounts on a non-CE machine.
 
If the list initdir is set, then files in those directories will be
copied to the created directory.  They will be given the same
ownership as the directory. 

When creating a file, all of the parent directories must already
exist.  
 
=head1 RESOURCES

=head2 /software/components/dirperm/paths

A list of files/directories to manage with this component.  Each entry
must be of the structure_dirperm_entry type which has the following
fields: path, owner, perm, type, initdir, checkmount.

=over 4

=item B<checkmount> : boolean (optional)

Pertinent for file/directory creation on non-root mounted filesystems.

By default, if a file/directory is configured to be created on a non-root
filesystem, and the filesystem is not mounted when ncm-dirperm is
executed, the file/directory will be created on the root filesystem.
There is a potential of filling up the root filesystem.

When checkmount is set to 'true', ncm-dirperm checks if the file/directory
resides on a configured filesystem in '/system/filesystems' and then
checks if the filesystem is actual mounted at creation time.  If the
filesystem is not mounted, then throw an error.

Default : false

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES
 
=begin text
"/software/components/dirperm/paths" = 
  list(nlist(
             "path",    "/export/home/alice002/.globus",
             "owner",   "alice002:alice",
             "perm",    "0700",
             "type",    "d",
             "initdir", list("/etc/skel")
            )
      );
=end text

=cut
