# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=head1 NAME

ncm-${project.artifactId}: Configuration module for OpenNebula

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration module for OpenNebula. 

=head1 IMPLEMENTED FEATURES

Features that are implemented at this moment:

=over

=item * oned service configuration

=item * Sunstone service configuration

=item * Adding/removing VNETs

=item * Adding/removing datastores (only Ceph and shared datastores for the moment)

=item * Adding/removing hypervirsors 

=item * Adding/removing OpenNebula regular users

=item * Updates OpenNebula *_auth files

=item * Updates VMM kvmrc config file

=back

OpenNebula installation is 100% automated. Therefore:

=over

=item * All the new OpenNebula templates created by the component will include a QUATTOR flag

=item * The component only will modify/remove resources with the QUATTOR flag set, otherwise the resource is ignored

=item * If the component finds any issue during hypervisor host configuration then the node is included within OpenNebula infrastructure but as disabled host

=back

=head1 INITIAL CREATION

- The schema details are annotated in the schema file.

- Example pan files are included in the examples folder and also in the test folders.


To set up the initial cluster, some steps should be taken:

=over 

=item 1. First install the required Ruby gems in your OpenNebula server. You can use OpenNebula installgems addon : https://github.com/OpenNebula/addon-installgems

=item 2. The OpenNebula server(s) should have passwordless ssh access as oneadmin user to all the hypervisor hosts of the cluster e.g. by distributing the public key(s) of the OpenNebula host over the cluster

=item 3. Start OpenNebula services: # for i in '' -econe -gate -novnc -occi -sunstone; do service opennebula$i stop; done

=item 4. Run the component a first time

=item 5. The new oneadmin password will be available from /var/lib/one/.one/one_auth file. The old auth files are stored with .quattor.backup extension.

=item 6. It is also possible to change sunstone service password, just include 'serveradmin' user and passwd within opennebula/users tree. In that case the component also updates the sunstone_auth file.

=back

=head1 RESOURCES

=head2 /software/components/${project.artifactId}

The configuration information for the component.  Each field should
be described in this section. 

=over 4

=item * ssh_multiplex : boolean

Set ssh multiplex options

=item * cfg_group : string

In some cases (such a Sunstone standalone conf with apache), some ONE conf files should be accessible by a different group (as apache).
This variable sets the group name to change these files permissions.

=item * host_hyp : string

Set host hypervisor type

=over 5

=item * kvm

Set KVM hypervisor

=item * xen

Set XEN hypervisor

=back

=item * host_ovs : boolean (optional)

Includes the Open vSwitch network drives in your hypervisors. (OVS must be installed in each host)
Open vSwitch replaces Linux bridges, Linux bridges must be disabled.
More info: http://docs.opennebula.org/4.14/administration/networking/openvswitch.html

=item * tm_system_ds : string (optional)

Set system datastore TM_MAD value (shared by default). Valid values:

=over 5

=item * shared

The storage area for the system datastore is a shared directory across the hosts.

=item * vmfs

A specialized version of the shared one to use the vmfs file system. 

=item * ssh

Uses a local storage area from each host for the system datastore.

=back

=back


=head1 DEPENDENCIES

The component was tested with OpenNebula version 4.8 and 4.1x

Following package dependencies should be installed to run the component:

=over

=item * perl-Config-Tiny 

=item * perl-LC

=item * perl-Net-OpenNebula >= 0.2.2 !

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

${author-info}

=cut
