# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=pod

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This component configures syslog-ng, an alternative logging facility
to Scientific Linux' sysklogd. If you want to configure sysklogd, use
ncm-syslog instead of this component.

The component's structure matches rather closely C<< syslog-ng.conf >> file format.

=head1 STRUCTURE

These are the top-level fields provided by the component. For
information on any of these fields' structure, please look syslog-ng's
documentation. Options accepting ony "yes" and "no" are mapped to Pan
booleans.

=over 4

=item * C<< /software/components/syslogng/sources >> : C<< source{} >>

Named list of C<source> structures, indexed by C<source> name.

=item * C<< /software/components/syslogng/destinations >> : C<< destination{} >>

Named list of C<destination> structures, indexed by C<destination>
name.

=item * C<< /software/components/syslogng/filters >> ? C<< filter{} >>

Named list of C<filter> structures, indexed by C<filter> name. Rules
inside a filter are combined by an OR operator. If you want AND
filters, use several filters inside a log path.

An additional field to the standard syslog-ng's usual filter
capabilities is added: C<exclude_filters>. This links to an already
defined filter, but it will be included in current one, NEGATED.

=item * C<< /software/components/syslogng/log_rules : log_rule[] >>

List of C<log_rule> structures.

=back

=head2 Defining a log path:

Log paths are defined on
C<< /software/components/syslogng/log_rules >>. Their structure is as
follows:

=over 4

=item * sources : string[]

List of sources on this path. Each member of this list is a source
name, and must exist on C<< /software/components/syslogng/sources >>.

=item * destinations : string[]

List of destinations on this path. Each member of this list must exist
on C<< /software/components/syslogng/destinations >>.

=item * filters ? string[]

List of filters to be applied on this path. Each member of this list
must exist on C<< /software/components/syslogng/destinations >>.

=item * flags ? flag_structure

Flags to be applied on this log rule.

=back

=cut
