# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}
# ${build-info}

=head1 NAME

ncm-${project.artifactId}: Configuration module for CEPH

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration module for CEPH

=head1 IMPLEMENTED FEATURES

Features that are implemented at this moment:

=over

=item * Creating cluster (manual step involved)

=item * Set admin hosts and push config

=item * Checking/adding/removing Monitors

=item * Checking/adding/removing OSDs

=item * Checking/adding/removing MDSs

=item * Building up/changing a crushmap

=back

The implementation keeps safety as top priority. Therefore:

=over

=item * The config of MON, OSD and MDSs are first checked completely. Only if no errors were found, the actual changes will be deployed.

=item * No removals of MONs, OSDs or MDSs are actually done at this moment. Instead of removing itself, it prints the commands to use. 

=item * Backup files are always made of the configfiles and decompiled crushmap files. These timestamped files can be found in the 'ncm-ceph' folder in the home directory of the ceph user

=item * When something is not right and returns an error, the whole component exits.

=item * You can set the version of ceph and ceph-deploy in the Quattor scheme. The component will then only run if the versions of ceph and ceph-deploy match with those versions.

=back

=head1 INITIAL CREATION

- The schema details are annotated in the schema file. 

- Example pan files are included in the examples folder and also in the test folders.


To set up the initial cluster, some steps should be taken:
=over 

=item 1. First create a ceph user on all the hosts.

=item 2. The deployhost(s) should have passwordless ssh access to all the hosts of the cluster
        e.g. by distributing the public key(s) of the ceph-deploy host(s) over the cluster hosts
            (As described in the ceph-deploy documentation: 
                        http://ceph.com/docs/master/start/quick-start-preflight/)

=item 3. Run the component a first time. 
            It shall fail, but you should get the initial command for your cluster

=item 4. Run this command

=item 5. Run the component again to start the configuration of the new cluster

=back

=head1 RESOURCES

=head2 /software/components/${project.artifactId}

The configuration information for the component.  Each field should
be described in this section. 

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

The component is tested with Ceph version 0.79 and ceph-deploy version 1.4.0. 

Following package dependencies should be installed to run the component:
=over

=item * perl-Data-Structure-Util 

=item * perl-Config-Tiny 

=item * perl-Test-Deep

=item * perl-Data-Compare >= 1.23 !

=back

This version of Data-Compare can be found on http://www.city-fan.org/ftp/contrib/perl-modules/

Attention: Some repositories (e.g. rpmforge) are shipping some versions like 1.2101 and 1.2102.

=head1 AUTHOR

${author-info}

=cut
