# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}

=pod

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<sudo> component manages the sudo configuracion, I.E: edits
C<< /etc/sudoers >>. It doesn't provide as strict and nice syntax and
semantic correction as visudo(8) does, but it tries to warn on most
common users' mistakes.

=head1 BASIC COMPONENT STRUCTURE

On top, it provides the following fields:

=over 4

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/general_options >> : optional

It is a list of C<structure_sudo_defaults> elements. It sets default
behaviour either for users or hosts, or for the whole sudo
application. This structure will be explained later.

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/<user|run_as|host|cmd>_aliases >> :
optional

Named lists of lists of strings containing the alias information. The
name of each named list must start with a letter, and contain only
letters, numbers and underscores. All the letters must be
capitals. I.E: the name must match C<< ^[A-Z][A-Z0-9_]*$ >>.

They can be preceeded by an '!', indicating the alias must B<not>
match that name. The contents may be preceeded by an '!', indicating
that item must B<not> be part of the alias.

The contents of host aliases can be either host names, IP addresses or
network specifications (IP/netmask).

A valid example:

  "/software/components/sudo/user_aliases" = nlist ("FOO",
        list ("bar", "%wheel", "!root"));

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/privilege_lines >> : mandatory

A list of structures of the type C<< structure_privilege_line >>, each one
specifying a way for a normal user to elevate its privileges.

=back

=head1 GENERAL OPTIONS STRUCTURE

The C<< structure_sudo_default >> defines the possible default behaviour
an user may find when running sudo. These settings are applied
globally, just to a host, just to an user, or just to a supplanted
user.

=over 4

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/general_options/[n]/user >> : optional

The user the settings apply to.

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/general_options/[n]/host >> : optional

The host the settings apply to.

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/general_options/[n]/run_as >> : optional

The supplanted user the settings apply to.

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/general_options/[n]/options >> : optional

The named list of options that can be specified. Currently, only
atomic options are supported.
Boolean, integer and string values are handled correctly.

=back

For a given setting, B<at most> one of C<user>, C<host> or C<run_as>
must be set. It is a compile error to set two or more of these.

For instance, this is valid:

  "/software/components/sudo/sudo/general_options" =
      list (
          nlist ("user", "foo",
              "options", nlist ("insults", true, "mailerpath", "/sbin/sendmail")
          );
      );

But this is B<NOT>:

  "/software/components/sudo/sudo/general_options" =
      list (
          nlist ("user", "foo",
              "host", "localhost" # Error: only one of user and host!
              "options", nlist ("insults", true)
              );
          );

=head2 The list of C<options>

The structure C<< structure_sudo_default_options >> lists the possible
settings and their expected type. See sudoers(5) for a full list and
description.

=head1 THE PRIVILEGE SCALATION SPECIFICATION

Each privilege line in a sudoers has the following format:

  user    host = (run_as_user) OPTIONS: command

And, as such, the type C<< structure privilege_line >> has the following fields:

=over 4

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/privilege_lines/[n]/user >> : mandatory

The user allowed to run C<< sudo <command> >>. Can be an user, an 
user_alias, or a group (with a leading C<%>).

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/privilege_lines/[n]/run_as >> : mandatory

The user to be supplanted. Can be an user, a run_as_alias or a group
(with a leading C<%>).

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/privilege_lines/[n]/host >> : mandatory

The host from where the user can invoke sudo. Can be a host or a host_alias.

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/privilege_lines/[n]/options >> : optional

If present, it must be either C<< PASSWD >> or C<< NOPASSWD >>.

=item * C<< /software/components/sudo/privilege_lines/[n]/cmd >> : mandatory

The command to be executed.

=back

Remember that the built-in alias B<ALL> is valid for users,
run_as users, hosts and commands.

=head1 INCLUDING OTHER FILES

The sudoers file allows to include other configuration files, to keep
the configurations simpler. The C<includes> field allows to specify a
list of files that should be included.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Try the following settings:

  "/software/components/sudo/general_options" =
      nlist ("options", nlist ("insults", true));
  "/software/components/sudo/user_aliases" =
      nlist ("FOO", list ("127.0.0.1"));
  "/software/components/sudo/privilege_lines" =
      list (nlist (
               "user", "foo",
               "run_as", "ALL",
               "host", "ALL",
               "cmd", "ALL"
               ));

and see the resulting C<< /etc/sudoers >>.

=head1 WARNINGS

This component cannot perform such as exhaustive analysis as visudo
does. Be careful with what you specify on your profiles or you will
break sudo!!

=cut
