# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<gmetad> component manages Ganglia's gmetad daemon.
This daemon collects performance information from various nodes and stores it in a RRD database.

=head2 GMETAD

The configuration of gmetad is stored in the file /etc/gmetad.conf.

The schema for this component are very similar to the options in the configuration file.
More detailed information about the options can be found on the website (B<SEE ALSO>).

=over 4

=item * /software/components/gmetad/data_source/[srcindex]/name : string

Name of the data source.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/data_source/[srcindex]/polling_interval : long(1..)

Optional polling interval for the data source, in seconds.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/data_source/[srcindex]/host/[hostindex]/address : type_hostname

Host name or IP address per machine serving the data source.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/data_source/[srcindex]/host/[hostindex]/port : type_port

Optional port for per machine serving the data source.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/debug_level : long(0..)

Optional level of debug output for the daemon.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/scalability : string

Optional flag to enable or disable scalability mode. 
Valid values are C<on> and C<off>.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/gridname : string

Optional name of the grid.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/authority : type_absoluteURI

Optional authority URL for this grid.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/trusted_hosts : type_hostname[]

Optional list of trusted hosts.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/all_trusted : string

Optional field to enable trust of all hosts.
Valid values are C<on> and C<off>.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/setuid : string

Optional flag to control setuid mode of the daemon.
Valid values are C<on> and C<off>.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/setuid_username : string

Optional name of the user account running the daemon.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/xml_port : type_port

Optional port gmetad will answer requests for XML.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/interactive_port : type_port

Optional port gmetad will answer queries for XML.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/server_threads : long(1..)

Optional number of threads answering XML requests.

=item * /software/components/gmetad/rrd_rootdir : string

Optional directory where gmetad stores its RRD databases.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

http://ganglia.wiki.sourceforge.net/

=cut
