# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=head1 NAME

ncm-filecopy: NCM component to manage simple configuration files and services.

=head2 DESCRIPTION

The I<filecopy> component manages services which have
configuration files that can be representated as strings in pan or built by copying
a template already present on the machine (eg. provided by a RPM).  A "restart"
command can be given which will be run whenever the configuration
changes.  

Note: that this does not do any validation checking on the content of
the service configuration.  If this is desired, a service-specific
component should be written.

Note2: "restart" commands are executed after all the files have been updated. There is intentionally no
guarantee on the order of execution if different commands must be executed: this is not necessarily the same
as for checking the files. If two files specify the same restart command, it will be executed only once. If
one of these restrictions is not convenient in your context, a service-specific
component should be written.

=head2 EXAMPLE

=head3 scenario 1 : Create a file

 prefix '/software/components/filecopy/services/{/tmp/test}';
 'config'='Contents of the file';
 'owner'='root:root';
 'perms'='0644';

=head3 scenario 2 : Create a script and execute it

 prefix '/software/components/filecopy/services/{/tmp/test.sh}';
 'config' = "#!/bin/bash\n echo Hello World";
 'restart' = '/tmp/test.sh';
 'owner'='root:root';
 'perms'='0755';

=head3 scenario 3 : Copy a file (/tmp/source)

 prefix '/software/components/filecopy/services/{/tmp/second-file}';
 'source'='/tmp/source';
 'owner'='root:root';
 'perms'='0644';

=cut
