# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=head1 NAME

The I<ccm> component manages the configuration file
for CCM.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<ccm> component manages the configuration file for the CCM
daemon.  This is usually the /etc/ccm.conf file. See the ccm-fetch
manpage for more details.

=head1 RESOURCES

=head2 configFile (/etc/ccm.conf)

The location of the configuration file.  Normally this should not be
changed.

=head2

=head2 profile

The URL for the machine's profile.  You can use either the http or
https protocols (the file protocol is also possible eg. for tests).
(see ccm-fetch manpage)

=head2 profile_failover

profile failover URL in case the above is not working (see ccm-fetch manpage)

=head2 debug

Turn on debugging.  Takes either 0 or 1.

=head2 force

Force fetching of the machine profile.  Turning this on ignores the
modification times.  Takes either 0 or 1.

=head2 preprocessor

Preprocessor executable which combines the profile and context.
Currently not used.

=head2 cache_root

The root directory of the CCM cache.  Defaults to /var/lib/ccm.

=head2 get_timeout

The timeout for the download operation in seconds.

=head2 lock_retries

Number of times to try to get the lock on the cache.

=head2 lock_wait

Number of seconds to wait between attempts to acquire the lock.

=head2 retrieve_retries

Number of times to try to get the context from the server.

=head2 retrieve_wait

Number of seconds to wait between attempts to get the context from the
server.

=head2 cert_file

The certificate file to use for an https protocol.

=head2 key_file

The key file to use for an https protocol.

=head2 ca_file

The CA file to use for an https protocol.

=head2 ca_dir

The directory containing accepted CA certificates when using the https
protocol.

=head2 world_readable

Whether the profiles should be world-readable.  This takes either a 0
or 1.

=head2 trust

A list of kerberos identities that should be trusted.
The value should be a comma-separated list of principals. If
the received profile is encrypted using kerberos, then this
list of trusted identities is consulted. If the
encryption author does not match any of these identities,
then the profile will be rejected.

=cut
