# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=head1 NAME

ncm-autofs: NCM component to manage autofs configuration. 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The I<autofs> component manages autofs master map and generated maps. It allows
both exclusive management by the component or preservation of local changes.

=head1 RESOURCES

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/preserveMaster : boolean >>

This flag indicated if local changes to master map must be preserved (true) or
not (false).

Default : true.

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/maps : nlist >>

This resource contains one entry per autofs map to manage. The nlist key is
mainly an internal name but it will be used to build the default map name.

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/maps/XXX/enabled : boolean >>

If false, ignore entries for this map (no change made).

Default : true.

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/maps/XXX/entries : nlist >>

One entry by filesystem to mount. The key is used to build the mount point. The actual
mount point depends on map type.

Default : none.

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/maps/XXX/mapname : string >>

Map name. If not defined, a default name is build (/etc/auto suffixed
by map entry name.

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/maps/XXX/mountpoint : string >>

Mount point associated with this map.

Default : none.

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/maps/XXX/mpaliases : string >>

Mount point aliases. Deprecated feature.

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/maps/XXX/options : string >>

Mount options to be used with this map.

Default : none.

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/maps/XXX/preserve : boolean >>

This flag indicated if local changes to the map must be preserved (true) or
not (false).

Default : true.

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/maps/XXX/type : string >>

Map type. Supported types are : direct, file, program, yp, nisplus,hesiod, userdir, ldap.
Only direct, file and program map contents can be managed by this component.

Required. Default none.

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/maps/XXX/entries/YYY/location : string >>

NFS server name/path associated with this entry.

Required, no default.

=head2 C<< /software/components/autofs/maps/XXX/entries/YYY/options : string >>

Specific mount options to be used with this entry.

Default : none

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Scenario 1 : Configure a NFS mountpoint

We will mount the NFS filesystem nfsserv.example.org:/data under /tmp_mnt/nfsdata

 prefix '/software/components/autofs/maps/data';
 'entries/nfsdata/location' = 'nfsserv.example.org:/data';
 'mapname'='/etc/auto.nfsdata';
 'mountpoint'='/tmp_mnt';
 'options'='rw,noatime,hard';

=head2 Scenario 2 : Configuration with nlist() usage
    
    '/software/components/autofs' = nlist(
        'preserveMaster', false,

        'maps', nlist(

            'misc', nlist(
                'enabled',    true,
                'preserve',   false,
                'mapname',    '/etc/auto.misc',
                'type',       'file',
                'mountpoint', '/misc',
                'entries',    nlist(
                    'kickstart', nlist(
                        'location', 'misc.example.com:/misc'
                    )
                )
            ),

            'garden', nlist(
                'enabled',    true,
                'preserve',   false,
                'mapname',    '/etc/auto.garden',
                'type',       'file',
                'options',    '',
                'mountpoint', '/home/garden',
                'entries',    nlist(
                    escape('*'), nlist(
                        'options',  '-rw,intr,rsize=8192,wsize=8192,actimeo=60,addr=10.21.12.10',
                        'location', 'crown-city.albion.net:/home/garden/&'
                    )
                )
            ),
        ),
    );

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

None.

=head1 BUGS

None known.

=head1 AUTHOR

David Groep <davidg@nikhef.nl>

=head1 MAINTAINER

David Groep <davidg@nikhef.nl>, Michel Jouvin <jouvin@lal.in2p3.fr>

=head1 VERSION

2.0.4

=head1 SEE ALSO

ncm-ncd(1)



=cut

