# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=head1 NAME

NCM::named - NCM named configuration component

=head1 DESCRIPTION

NCM component allowing to copy the named server configuration (C<< /etc/named.conf >>) file from a reference location and/or configure the resolver configuration file (C<< /etc/resolv.conf >>).

If named is started on the machine, localhost (127.0.0.1) is added as the first server in resolver configuration file.

=head1 RESOURCES

=over

=item * C<< /software/components/named/start >>: boolean (optional)

Enable/Start or Disable/Stop named server. If undefined, nothing is done.

=item * C<< /software/components/named/configfile >>: string (optional)

Reference file location for named configuration file. Existing (C<< /etc/named.conf >>), if any, will be replaced.
'configfile' is mutually exclusive with 'serverConfig'.

=item * C<< /software/components/named/serverConfig >>: string (optional)

Content of named configuration file (C<< /etc/named.conf >>). 'serverConfig' is mutually exclusive with 'configfile'.

=item * C<< /software/components/named/servers >>: list of hosts

Ordered list of named servers to use in (C<< /etc/resolv.conf >>). If named server is started, localhost (127.0.0.1) will be added first.

=item * C<< /software/components/named/options >>: list of options

Ordered list of named options to use in (C<< /etc/resolv.conf >>).

C<< /etc/resolv.conf >> is updated: everything except 'nameserver' lines are preserved. All the 'nameserver' lines are replaced by information in this option, if present.

=back

=cut
