# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=head1 NAME

NCM::drbd - NCM DRBD configuration component

=head1 DESCRIPTION

DRBD is a block device which is designed to build high availability clusters. 
This is done by mirroring a whole block device via (a dedicated) network. 
You could see it as a network raid-1. 

DRBD is often used in combination with HA Linux.

The I<drbd> component manages the DRBD configuration.
This component is based on the configuration for DRBD v0.7.

=head2 Automatic reconfiguration

By default, the new configuration is not automatically loaded into DRBD, 
although this may be overridden in the configuration. 

The risk of using automatic reconfiguration is that an error in the
configuration may lead to corruption of data present on the file systems
involved.

When automatic reconfiguration is enabled, ncm-drbd performs the following
steps:

=over

=item * Unmount the filesystems that are configured as drbd disk or metadisk

=item * Modify /etc/fstab so that those file systems are commented out

=item * Start the drbd daemon

=item * Check the format of the configuration file with the command

=over

drbdadm -d adjust all

=back

=item * Perform the actual configuration of drbd with command

=over

drbdadm adjust all

=back

=back

=head2 Forcing primary node at install time

It is possible to force a node to become the primary one at install time.
This is useful upon first installation, when both nodes are inconsistent
and secondary nodes. The command executed is:

=over

drbdadm -- --do-what-I-say primary F<resource>

=back

However, if a node is re-installed whilst the other node is active and
has good data, forcing the installing node to become primary may lead to
corruption of data.

Please read the drbd documentation for details.


=head1 SYNOPSIS


=head2 Configure()

Generates the configuration file F</etc/drbd.conf>
from the information in the Quattor profile for the host. 

If enabled, the node configured to be the primary one can be forced to 
become the primary node on first installation. Please be F<very sure>
that the other node in the DRBD setup does not have a correct data set.
Forcing the node to become primary might cause loss of data! See the DRBD 
website for details.


=head2 Unconfigure()

Does nothing.


=head1 RESOURCES

=head2 /software/components/drbd/active : boolean

=over

activates/deactivates the component.

=back

=head2 /software/components/drbd/reconfigure : boolean

=head2 /software/components/drbd/force_primary : boolean

Configuration options under /software/components/drbd
(see man page of drbd.conf(5) for details):

=head2 global/minor_count : long

=head2 global/dialog_refresh : long

=head2 global/disable_io_hints : string


=head2 resource/I<name>/protocol : string F<MANDATORY>

=head2 resource/I<name>/incon_degr_cmd : string F<MANDATORY>

=head2 resource/I<name>/primary_host : long (0 | 1)

=over

If set, and only if force_primary is also set, 
indicates which of the host will become the primary one
at initial installation. The initial installation comprises all
situations where the configuration file F</etc/drbd.conf> does
not exist.

=back

=head2 resource/I<name>/hosts/I<0|1>/hostname : string F<MANDATORY>

=head2 resource/I<name>/hosts/I<0|1>/device : string F<MANDATORY>

=head2 resource/I<name>/hosts/I<0|1>/disk : string F<MANDATORY>

=head2 resource/I<name>/hosts/I<0|1>/address : string F<MANDATORY>

=head2 resource/I<name>/hosts/I<0|1>/meta_disk : string F<MANDATORY>


=head2 resource/I<name>/startup/wfc_timeout : long

=head2 resource/I<name>/startup/degr_wfc_timeout : long


=head2 resource/I<name>/syncer/rate : string

=head2 resource/I<name>/syncer/group : long

=head2 resource/I<name>/syncer/al_extents : long


=head2 resource/I<name>/net/sndbuf_size : long

=head2 resource/I<name>/net/timeout : long

=head2 resource/I<name>/net/connect_int : long

=head2 resource/I<name>/net/ping_int : long

=head2 resource/I<name>/net/max_buffers : long

=head2 resource/I<name>/net/max_epoch_size : long

=head2 resource/I<name>/net/unplug_watermark : long

=head2 resource/I<name>/net/ko_count : long

=head2 resource/I<name>/net/on_disconnect : long


=head2 resource/I<name>/disk/on_io_error : string


=head1 DEPENDENCIES

None.

=head1 BUGS

None known.

=head1 AUTHOR

Ronald Starink <ronalds@nikhef.nl>

=head1 SEE ALSO

ncm-ncd(1), drbd.conf(5), http://www.drbd.org, 
http://www.linux-ha.org/DRBD/QuickStart07

=cut
