# ${license-info}
# ${developer-info}
# ${author-info}


=head1 NAME

NCM::chkconfig - NCM chkconfig component

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item Configure()

Updates runlevel information for system services by using B<chkconfig> that are
defined in /software/components/chkconfig/.

Also starts/stops those services that have option C<startstop> set to true in
and have one of the following options specified:
C<add> or C<del> option is true, C<on> or C<off> option is specified either
without specific runlevels, or with runlevel value that contains the current runlevel.

The optional I<default> key decides what will happen with services that are not explicitly
configured. Default is to ignore them, but a vakue of I<off> instead disables anything
not mentioned in the profile.

=item Unconfigure()

Not available.

=back

=head1 RESOURCES

=over

=item C<< /software/components/chkconfig/active : boolean >>

activates/deactivates the component.

=item C<< /software/components/chkconfig/default : string ("off", "ignore") >>

says what happens if no explicit configuration is found for the
service. Certain services (like C<network, messagebus, haldaemon,
sshd>) are protected from being turned off via the default setting,
but please do not rely on this.

=item C<< /software/components/chkconfig/service/<service>/off : string ("[0-7]*") >>

=item C<< /software/components/chkconfig/service/<service>/on : string ("[0-7]*") >>

Sets the service <service> on/off on specified run levels. The run
levels are specified as string of numbers, the same way as with
C<chkconfig>-command. If the string is empty, system default is taken
(see C<man chkconfig(8)> for exact details).

=item C<< /software/components/chkconfig/service/<service>/name : string >>

If set, the value is used as the name of the service instead of using the
I<service> path as a name.

=item C<< /software/components/chkconfig/service/<service>/reset : string ("[0-7]*") >>

Resets the service on defined run levels. Reset with no run levels specified
affects every run level.

=item C<< /software/components/chkconfig/service/<service>/add : boolean >>

If the value is true, adds service for management by chkconfig (if not
already the case), otherwise the option is ignored. Please note that
some services do not turn themselves on, and so in addition need an
explicit I<on> for the appropriate runlevels.

If service has value 'add', and is already known to chkconfig, 'reset'
will be run. This will restore service runlevel to its default values
and protect from any manual changes of runlevels by /sbin/chkconfig.

=item C<< /software/components/chkconfig/service/<service>/del : boolean >>

If the value is true, removes service from management by chkconfig, otherwise
the option is ignored.

=item C<< /software/components/chkconfig/service/<service>/startstop : boolean >>

If true, the service is also started/stopped when the service is
added, removed or turned off/on. The component tries to check whether
a certain service is already running or stopped and will not redo the
action, but this relies on the service's init script correctly
reporting current state.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example will start named on system default runlevels:

    include 'components/chkconfig/config';
    "/software/components/chkconfig/service/named/add" = true;
    "/software/components/chkconfig/service/named/on" = "";
    "/software/components/chkconfig/service/named/startstop" = true;

The shorter way of writing this (assuming named is known to chkconfig):

    include 'components/chkconfig/config';
    "/software/components/chkconfig/service/named" =
         nlist("on","","startstop",true);


Disable and stop xinetd:

    "/software/components/chkconfig/service/xinetd" = nlist("off", "", "startstop", true);

=cut
